Cisco First Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H8W9oMNSuwo&list=PLxbwE86jKRgMpuZuLBivzlM8s2Dk5lXBQ&ab_channel=Jeremy%27sITLab
	Intro:
	Computer Network:
		- A computer network is a digital telecommunications network which allows nodes to share resources

	Network Nodes:
		- Router
		- Switch
		- Firewall
		End Hosts:
		- Server
		- Client (Smartphone, pc, tablet)

	Clients:
		A client is a device that accesses a service made available by a server. A client is a device that allows you to access
		the internet (e.g smartphone, tablet, pc, laptop etc)

	Server:
		A server is a device that provides functions or services for clients. A server is a device that provides the requested information 
		from the internet to client (e.g powerful pc, server pc, even a raspberry pie)

	The same Device Can be a Client at some situations and a Server at others.

	Switches:
		Switches are used to aggregate the connection between the computers in a Branch of Offices to create a LAN (Local Area Network).
		Switches also can be used to aggregate the connection between the servers in a Branch to create a LAN 2.
		Switches cannot directly access the internet to communicate between the 2 Offices.
		Switches:
			- They have many network interfaces/ports for end hosts to connect to (usually 24+)
			- They provide connectivity to hosts within the same LAN
			- They DO NOT provide connectivity between LANs/over the Internet

	Router:
		Routers are used to provide access to the internet from the LAN via a Switch. First of all the PCs send the request to the switch.
		The switch then sends the request to the router and the router sends the request to the internet. Then the requests arrive to the router of the server
		the  request was made for. The router of the second LAN sends the requests to the second switch and to the server. Then the respond goes the other way around.
		Routers:
			- Routers have fewer netowrk interfaces than switches
			- Routers are used to provide connectivity between LANs
			- They are used to send data over the internet.

	Firewall:
		Firewalls are network security devices that control network traffic entering and exiting your network. Firewalls can be placed pas the point of router or before the stage of a router. They protect the end hosts inside the network. 
		Firewalls:
			- They monitor and control network traffic based on configured rules
			- They can be placed "inside" the network (after traffic hits the router), or "outside" the network (before the traffic hits the router)
			- "Next Generation Firewalls" they include modern and advanced filtering cababilities.
		Host-Based Firewalls:
			- Host-Based firewalls are installed softwares that monitor the inbound and outbound traffic on your PC. example: Windows Firewall

Cisco Second Video: Day2
	Interfaces and Cables:
		Interfaces can also be called ports (on switches). Ethernet ports are called RJ-45 (Registered Jack).
		What is Ethernet? Is a collection of networks protocols/standards.
		Why we need network protocols and standards?
			- Network protocols and standards is like a predefined language in which the devices are going to communicate in. 
			- If you try to connect a cable and a switch if the two vendors go with the ethernet standards that are usually followed then they will not be able to communicate.
		Connection between Devices in a Network:
			- Speeds:
				Connection between devices in a network operate at a set speed.
				The speeds are measured in bits per second or bps. These values are represented by either a 0 or a 1.
				8 bits is equal to 1 byte. The speeds are measured in bits per second and NOT in bytes per second. The reason is that the transfer is reached from the giver to the receiver one bit at a time NOT a byte at a time.
				Speed in networks is measured in Kbps, Mbps, Gbps etc.
				1 Kilobit(Kb) = 1,000 bits
				1 Megabit(Mb) = 1,000,000 bits
				1 Gigabit(Gb) = 1,000,000,000 bits
				1 Terabit(Tb) = 1,000,000,000,000 bits

			-Ethernet Standards:
				Defined in the IEEE 802.3 standard in 1983
				IEEE = Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
				
				Speed 				Common Name				IEEE Standards			Infromal Name	(Base = refers to baseband signaling)		Maximum Lenght
				10 Mbps				Ethernet				802.3i					10 BASE-T		(T = twisted pair)							100 m
				100 Mbps			Fast Ethernet			802.3u					100 BASE-T													100 m 
				1 Gbps 				Gigabit Ethernet		802.3ab					1000 BASE-T													100 m	
				10Gbps				10 Gigabiot Ethernet	802.3an					10G  BASE-T													100 m
			
			Cable types:
				-UTP Cables (unshielded twisted pair)
					4 pairs of wires twisted together
					8 wires in total
					10 BASE-T	100 BASE-T use only 2 pairs of the UTP cables 
					1000 BASE-T	10G BASE-T use all of 4 pairs of the UTP cables
					Full-Duplex Transminsion: (Send and receive data at the same time)
						There are in total 8 pins (8 wires in a UTP cable). When a PC is connected to a switch, if the cable is 10 Base-T or 100Base-T it only uses 4 of those pins.
						In order for the computer to Transmit data (Tx), it uses the pins of the cable 1 and 2 which are twisted together and the switch receives (Rx) the data.
						In order for the switch to respond or transmit data (Tx) it uses pins 3 and 6 which the wires are also twisted together and the PC receives the data(Rx).
						This allows the Full-Duplex Transminsion.

					Netowrk Nodes and UTP Cables:
						PC 			(10Base-T + 100Base-T): pins 1+2 transmit data(Tx), pins 3+6 receive data (Rx)
						Router  	(10Base-T + 100Base-T): pins 1+2 transmit data(Tx), pins 3+6 receive data (Rx)
						Firewall	(10Base-T + 100Base-T): pins 1+2 transmit data(Tx), pins 3+6 receive data (Rx)
						Switch  	(10Base-T + 100Base-T): pins 3+6 transmit data(Tx), pins 1+2 receive data (Rx)

					Types of Cables:
						Straight-through cable:
							The cable connects the pins to the corresponding pin of the other device:
								e.g. pin 1 to pin 1, pin 2 to pin 2 etc.

					-Fiber-Optics Connections
					SFP Tranceiver (Small Form-Factor Pluggable)
					Anatomy of a fiber optic cable:
						-Fiberglass core: the section which the data is transmitted
						-Cladding that reflects the light(info trasmitted)
						-A prodective buffer (Protects the fiberglass from breaking)
						-the outer jacket of the cable

						Multimode Fiber Cables:
							-Core diameter is wider than single-mode fiber
							-Allows multiple angles (modes of lights) to enter the fiberglass core
							-Allows longer cables than UTP, but shorter cables than single-mode fiber
							-Cheaper than single-mode fiber (due to cheaper LED-based SFP transmitters)
						
						Single mode fiber:
							-Core diameter is narrower than multimode fiber
							-Light enters at a single angle (mode) froma laser-based transmitter
							-Allows longer cables than both  UTP and multimode fiber
							-More expensive than multimode fiber (due to more expensive laser-based SFP transmitters)

					Fiber-Optic Cable Standards:
						Informal Name			IEEE Standards			Speeds			Cable types			Maximum Lenght
						1000 BASE-LX			802.3z					1Gbps			Multimode or 		550 meters (MM)
																						Single Mode 		5 km (SM)
						10G BASE-SR				802.3ae					10 Gbps			Multimode			400 meters						
						10G BASE-LR				802.3ae					10 Gbps			Single Mode			10 km					
						10G BASE-ER				802.3ae					10 Gbps			Single Mode			30 km		



				-UTP Cables 														VS 							-Fiber-Optic
				 -lower costs														|							 -Higher cost than UTP
				 -Shorter maximum distances											|							 -Longer maximum distance than UTP								
				 -Can be vulnrable to EMI											|							 -No vulnerability to EMI									
				 -RJ45 port used with UTP are cheaper than SFP ports				|							 -SFP ports are more expensive than RJ45 (single-mode is more expensive 
				 -Emit (leak) a faint signal outside the cable, which				|							  than multimode)
				  can be copied (security leak)										|							 -Does not emit any signal outside the cable (no security risks

Cisco Third Video: Day 3
	Networking Models:
		-OSI Model and TCP/IP Suite

	What is a Networking Model:
		Networking models categorize and provide a structure for networking protocols and standards.
		Protocols: a Set of rules defining how network devices and software should work

	OSI Model: Open Systems Interconnection model (7 Layers)
		-A conceptual model that categorizes and standarizes the different functions in a network
		-Created by the International Organization for Standarization
		-Network functions are divided into 7 Layers
			1 Physical,2 Data Link,3 Network,4 Transport, 5 Session,6 Presentation,7 Application


			Upper Layers:
				7 Application Layer:
					This layer is closest to the end user.
					Interacts with software applications, for example a web browser
					HTTPS and HTTP are Layer 7 protocols
					Process-to-Process communications
	
						Functions of Layer 7:
							Identifying communication partners
							Sychronizing communication
	
				6 Presentation Layer:
						Data in the application layer is in "application format"
						It needs to be "translated" to a different format to be sent over the network
						The Presentation Layer job is to translate between the application and network formats
						e.g. Encryption or decryption of data send and received
	
				5 Session Layer:
						Controls dialogues (session) between communicating hosts
						Establishes, manages and terminates connections between the local applications (for example web browser) and the remote application (e.g YouTube)
			
			Bottom 4 Layers:
				4 Transport Layer: (Adds a L4 Header - a header that is added to each segment of the data past the segmentation process) data+l4 header = segment
					Segments and reaassembles data for communications between end hosts
					Breaks large pieces of data into smaller segments which can be more easily sent over the network and are less likely to cause transmission problems
					if errors occur.
					Provide host-to-host communication (end-to-end communication)

				3 Network Layer: (Adds a L3 Header ) data+L4 header+L3 header = packet 
					Provides connectivity between end host on different network (outside of the LAN)
					Provides logical addressing (IP addresses)
					Provides path selection between source and destination
					Routers are Layer 3 network devices

				2 Data Link Layer: (Adds a L2 Header and L2 trailer) L2 trailer+data+L3 header+L4 header+L2 header = frame
					Provides node-to-node connectivity and data transfer (e.g. PC to switch, switch to router, router to router)
					Defines how data is formatted for transmission over a physical medium (e.g copper UTP cables)
					Detects and corrects Phhysical Layer errors
					Uses Layer 2 addressing, seperate from Layer 3 addressing
					Switches operate at Layer 2.

				1 Physical:
					Defines physical characteristics of the medium used to transfer data between devices
					e.g Voltage levels, maximum transmission distances, physical connectors, cable specifications
					Digital bits are converted into electrical (for wired connections) or radio (for wireless connections) signals.



				PDUS(Protocol Data Units)
					Data, Segment, Packet, Frame, Bit




			Encapsulation:
				The process which data starts from Layer 7 (Application) and goes through the rest of the layers gaining information in order to be send via the
				physical layer
			De-encapsulation:
				The process which data is received on Layer 1 (Physical) and goes through the rest of the layers decompressing the information in order to be received
				at the Application layer of the receiver


	TCP/IP Suite Model:
		Conceptual model and set of communications protocols used in the Internet and other networks.
		Known as TCP/IP because those are two of the foundation protocols in the suite.
		Developed by the United States Department of Defense through DARPA (Defence Advanced Research Project Agency)
		Similar structure to the OSI Model, but with fewer layers.
		This is the model actually in use in modern networks
		NOTE: OSI model still influnces engineers

		Layers of the Model:
			1 Link, 2 Internet, 3 Transport, 4 Application

Cisco Fourth Video: Day 4
	Cisco IOS CLI:
		What is a CLI?
		 	Command-line interface
		 	The interface you use to configure Cisco
		 What is a GUI?
		 	Graphical User Interface

		 In order to program a Cisco device you need to connect to the console port. Console ports are either RJ45 or USB mini-b
		 You can either use a rollover cable (RJ45 to DB9 connector). You can use an adaptor (DB2 to usb)

		 In order to connect to the device you can use a Terminal Emulator (Putty)


	User EXEC mode: is represented in terminal by > (e.g Router>) Router is the hostname of the device
		User exec mode is very limited
		Users can look at some things, but cant make any changes to the configuration
		Also called "user mode"

	Privilaged EXEC mode: is represented in terminal by # (e.g Router #)
		Provides complete acces to view the device's configuration, restart the device, etc. To enter use enable-Enter
		Cannot change the configuration, but change time or save

	Global Configuration Mode: Router(config)#
		To enter you use conf->Tab->Enter
		It is represented by Router(config)#
		enable password <passowrd> command to change the password and enable it
		Passwords are case sensitive


	There are two seperate configuration files kept on the device at once:
		Running-config = the current, acive configuration file on the device. As you enter commands in the CLI, you edit the active configuration

		Startup-config = the configuration file that will be loaded when reboot or startup device

		Commands:
			show running-config
			show startup-config

	
				write = save it to the memory of the device
				write memory = save it to the memory of the device
				copy running-config startup-config = copy the runninng configuration to the startup configuration
				enable secret -> eanble passsword more securly (NOT SAME commands)
				service password-encryption:
					current passwords will be encrypted
					furuter passwords will be encrypted
					the enable secret will not be effected
				no service password-encryption:
					current passwords will not be encrypted
					future passwords will not be encrypted
					the enable secret will not be effected
				run = sudo but for Cisco
				no = removes the command
				

			

