AWS Solution Architect:

Exam Guide:
	Design Resilient Architectures 						34%
	Define Performant Architectures						24%
	Specify Secure Applications and Architectures		26%
	Design Cost-Optimized Architectures					10%
	Define Operationally-Excellent Architectures		6%

	65 Questions

	Recommended Reading:
		Architecting for the Cloud: AWS Best Practices
		AWS Well-Architected Framework
		
Introduction to S3 Storage:
 Serverless Storage in the cloud. Do not need to worry about infrastructure. S3 provides you with unlimited storage.
	What is Object Storage?
		data storage architecture that manages data as objects, as opposed to other storage architectures
			-file systems which manages data files and fire hierarchy
			-block storages which manages data as block within sectors and tracks
	Two main most key components: S3 Object or S3 Bucket
		S3 Object:
		{Object is composed of: key, value, version ID (versioning), metadata - You can store 0 Bytes to 5 Terabytes in size<-trick question in exam}
		S3 Buckets:
		Buckets hold objects. Buckets can also hold folders which in turn hold objects. S3 is a universal namespace so bucket names must be unique(like a domain).
	S3 Storage Classes:
		Standard, Intelligent Tiering, Standard IA, One-Zone IA, Glacier, Glacier Deep Archive
	CRR (Cross Region Replication)
		When enabled any object that is uploaded will be automatically replicated to another region. Provides higher durability and potential disaster recovery for objects.
		You must have versioning turned on both the source and destination buckets.
		You can have CRR replicate to another AWS Account.
	Versioning:
		So it divides and tags the objects in an S3 with their unique version ID which is the same as the name. Once it is enabled it cannot be disabled only suspended. Fully intergates with the S3 Lifecycle rules. MFA Delete feature provides extra protection against deletion of your data.
	Transfer Acceleration:
		Fast and secure transfer of files over long distances. Utilizes Cloudfront's distribute Edge Locations.
		Instead of uploading to your bucket, users use a distinct URL for an Edge Location. As data arrives at the Edge Location it is automatically routed to S3 over a specially optimized network path. (Amazon's backbone Network)
	Presigned URLs:
		Generate a url that provides temporary acces to an object.Commonly used to provide acces to private objects.
	MFA Delete:
		Ensures that users cannot delete froma  bucket unless they provide MFA code.
		MFA Delete can only be enabled under these conditions.
			1. The AWS CLI must be used to turn on MFA
			2. The bucket must have versioning turned on
	S3 CLI commands:
		List all buckets:
			aws s3 ls
		List all folders and objects in bucket:
			aws s3 ls://exam-pro-111
		List all folders and objects in folder:
			aws s3 ls://exam-pro-111/test2
		Download objects to my desktop:
			aws s3 cp s3://exam-pro-111/test2/mpla.jpg C:\Users\Ttofis\Desktop\mpla.jpg
		Upload object to s3 bucket:
			aws s3 cp C:\Users\Ttofis\Desktop\mpla.jpg s3://exam-pro-111/test2/mpla.jpg 
		Create presigned urls (for temporary access to the object):
			aws s3 presign s3://

	S3 Cross Regional Replication:
		Need to remember that in order to be able to replicate an s3 to another region, Versioning must be enabled

	S3 Policy:
		JSON file that is goint ot be implemented with the Policy Generator.

	Snowball&Snowball Edge&Snowmobile Cheatsheet:
		Snowball and Snowball Edge is a rugged container which contains a storage device
		Snowmobile is a 45 foot long ruggedized shipping container, pulled by a semi-trailer truck
		Snowball and Snowball edge is for peta-clae migration. Snowmobile is for exabyte-scale migration
		Low Cost thousands of dollars to transfer 100 TB over high speed internet. Snowball is 1/5th
		Speed 100TB for 100days to transfer over high speed internet, Snowball takes less than a week
		Snowball comes in two sizes:
			-50 TB (42 TB of usable space)
			-80 TB (72 TB of usable space)
		Snowball Edge comes in two sizes:
			-100 TB (83 TB of usable space)
			-100 TB Clustered (45 TB of usable space)

		Snowmobile comes in one size: 100 PB
		You can both export or import data using Snowball or Snowmobile
		You can import into S3 or Glacier
		Snowball Edge can undertake local processing and edge-computing workloads
		Snowball Edge can use in a cluster in groups of 5 to 10 devices
		Snowball Edge provides 3 options for device configurations:
			-storage optimized (24 vCPUs)
			-computer optimized (54 vCPUs)
			-GPU optimized (54 vCPUs)



VPC Introduction: (Virtual Private Cloud)
 Provision a logically isolated section of the AWS Cloud where you can launch AWS resources in a virtual network tha you define
	Key Features:
		VPCs are Region Specific they do not span regions
		You can create up to 5 VPC per region
		Every region comes with a defualt VPC
		You can have 200 subnets per VPC
		You can use IPv4 Cidr Block and in addition a IPv6 Cidr Block (The address of the VPC)
		Cost nothing: VPCs, Route Tables, Nacls, Internet Gateways, Security Groups and Subnets, VPC Peering
		Some things cost money: NAT Gateway, VPC Endpoints, VPN Gateway, Customer Gateway
		DNS hostnames: (should your instance have domain name addresses)

	Default VPC: AWS has a default VPC in every region so you can immediately deploy instances
		Create a VPC with a size /16 IPv4 CIDR block (172.31.0.0/16)
		Create a size /20 default subnet in each Availability zone.
		Create an Internet Gateway and connect it to your default VPC
		Create a default security group and assiociate it with your default VPC
		Create a default network access control list (NACL) and associate it with your default VPC
		Assosiciate the default DHCP options set for your AWS account with your defualt VPC
		When you create a VPC, it automatically has a main route table

	Default Everywhere IP:
		0.0.0.0/0 is also known as default
		It represents all possible IP addresses
		When we specify 0.0.0.0/0 in our route table for IGW we allow internet access
		When we specify 0.0.0.0/0 in our security groups inbound rules we are allowing all traffic from internet access to our public resources
		When you see 0.0.0.0/0 think of giving access from anywhere or the internet

	
